[AIG] Logpush initial documentation (#16798)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/ai-gateway/observability/logpush.mdx

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Logpush
sidebar:
  badge:
    text: Beta
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

AI Gateway allows you to securely export logs to an external storage location, where you can decrypt and process them.

> You can toggle Logpush on and off in the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) settings.

Reviewer: Not a suggestion but - does this linebreak even get rendered in the docs? Or does MDX ignore it?

Author: mdx ignores it. This is mainly for me to know what I am writing lol

You can store up to 10 million logs per gateway. If your limit is reached, new logs will stop being saved and will not be exported through Logpush. To continue saving and exporting logs, you must delete older logs to free up space for new logs. Logpush has a limit of 4 jobs. 

:::note[Note]

To export logs using Logpush, you must have logs turned on for the gateway.

:::

## Setting up Logpush

To configure Logpush for AI Gateway, follow these steps:

## 1. Generate an RSA key pair locally

You need to generate a key pair to encrypt and decrypt the logs. This script will output your RSA privateKey and publicKey. Keep the private key secure, as it will be used to decrypt the logs. Below is a sample script to generate the keys using Node.js.

```js title="JavaScript"
const crypto = require("crypto");

const { privateKey, publicKey } = crypto.generateKeyPairSync("rsa", {
	modulusLength: 4096,
	publicKeyEncoding: {
		type: "spki",
		format: "pem",
	},
	privateKeyEncoding: {
		type: "pkcs8",
		format: "pem",
	},
});

console.log(publicKey);
console.log(privateKey);
```

> Run the script by executing the code below on your terminal. Where `file name` is the name of your JavaScript file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the script by executing the code below on your terminal. Replace `file name` with the name of your JavaScript file.
```

```bash
node {file name}
```

> This script will output your RSA privateKey and publicKey on your terminal. Keep the private key secure, as it will be used to decrypt the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
This is a duplicate sentence from above. Maybe remove it here?

Author: Yes .

## 2. Upload public key to gateway settings

Once you have generated the key pair, upload the public key to your AI Gateway settings. This key will be used to encrypt your logs. In order to enable Logpush, you will need logs enabled for that gateway. 

## 3. Set up Logpush

To set up Logpush, refer to [Logpush Get Started](/logs/get-started/).

## 4. Receive encrypted logs

After configuring Logpush, logs will be sent encrypted using the public key you uploaded. To access the data, you will need to decrypt it using your private key. The logs will be sent to the object storage provider that you have selected.

> ## 5. Decrypting logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 5. Decrypt logs
```

To decrypt the encrypted log bodies and metadata from AI Gateway, you can use the following Node.js script:

```js title="JavaScript"
const privateKey = `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
....
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----`;

const crypto = require("crypto");
const key = crypto.createPrivateKey(privateKey);

const fs = require("fs");
const zlib = require("zlib");
const readline = require("readline");

function decryptBase64(key, string) {
	const decryptedData = crypto.privateDecrypt(
		{
			key: key,
			oaepHash: "SHA256",
		},
		Buffer.from(string, "base64"),
	);

	return decryptedData.toString();
}

let lineReader = readline.createInterface({
	input: fs.createReadStream("my_log.log.gz").pipe(zlib.createGunzip()),
});

lineReader.on("line", (line) => {
	line = JSON.parse(line);

	const { Metadata, RequestBody, ResponseBody, ...remaining } = line;

	console.log({
		...remaining,
		Metadata: decryptBase64(key, Metadata.data),
		RequestBody: decryptBase64(key, RequestBody.data),
		ResponseBody: decryptBase64(key, ResponseBody.data),
	});
	console.log("--");
});
```

> Run the script by executing the code below on your terminal. Where `file name` is the name of your JavaScript file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the script by executing the below code on your terminal. Replace `file name` with the name of your JavaScript file.
```

```bash
node {file name}
```

## Script Explanation

> The script reads the encrypted log file `(my_log.log.gz)`, decrypts the metadata, request body, and response body, and prints the decrypted data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script reads the encrypted log file `(my_log.log.gz)`, decrypts the metadata, request body, and response body, and prints the decrypted data.
```
There seems to be one extra "and" - but I lack domain knowledge to suggest an alternative.

import { Render } from "~/components";

AI Gateway allows you to securely export logs to an external storage location, where you can decrypt and process them. This guide explains how to set up Logpush for AI Gateway, generate an RSA key pair for encryption, and decrypt the logs once they are received.

> Logpush has a limit of 4 jobs.

Reviewer 2: 1) should this be a note?
2) Can we add "If you have reached the limit of logs stored for your plan (insert link to limits page), logs will not be exported through Logpush.
